# Northwind Traders PowerBI report

This PowerBI report project is developed for Northwind Traders, a global import and export company specializing in gourmet food products. The purpose of this dashboard is to provide the executive team with insights into the company's performance across key areas including sales trends, product performance, key customers, and shipping costs.

## Overview

### Dataset:

 There are 7 tables provided by the company and 2 tables created by myself. One of them is the date table, whose purpose is to free the data model memory by disabling the auto-date/time feature and to work smoothly with time series and the other is a blank table whose purpose is to centralise all the measures created.

 Northwind Trades table names:

    categories
    customers
    employees
    order_details
    orders
    products
    shippers
 
  For detailed information related to the meaning of each column please consult the data_dictionary.csv file.


### Report structure and terminology.

 This report consists of two dashboards: 

    Company Performance
    Team Performance
 
 Terminology:
 
    YoY = Year over year
    LY = Last year
    Gross revenue = Overall revenue generated by the company without deducting discounts and shipping expenses
    Net revenue = Gross revenue - discounts - shipping expenses
 

## What is this dashboard answering?

Northwind Traders communicated that they would like to gain insights on the following topics:

    Sales trends  
    Product performance
    Key customers
    Shipping costs

Considering the requirement from above, I have created and confirmed with business team on the following questions which would be the compass for this task:

  **Company Performance dashboard questions:**
- What is the net revenue generated, total number of orders, total discounts, total shipping cost per year and its variation from previous year (absolute and relative)? In case there is no previous year amount, display: "LY data is not available"
- Top 10 customers by: Net revenue, discounts, shipping cost for each year or for the entire period.
- Please provide the net revenue, discounts, shipping cost by product category and product name for each year or for the entire period.
- Please provide quarterly net revenue evolution over the entire period.
- Please provide the shipping cost for each supply chain partner for each year or for the entire period.

**Team Performance dashboard questions:**
- Please provide a sales representative summary visual which should include the following information:
    - One card which should display:
        - employee full name and employee id, manager name and id, representative office and the country where the office is located, gross sales and total orders recorded for each year or all years acummulated. 
        - another 2 charts reflecting the gross sales generated by each sales rep., one per product category and the other per country for each year or all years acummulated.
    - One chart with total discounts offered by each employee for each year and all years acummulated.
    - One chart showing worldwide ranking by gross sales for all the employees, the product they sold most and the sales generated by that specific product.

## Requirements

To use this PowerBI dashboard, you will need:

- Microsoft PowerBI Desktop installed on your computer.
- Access to data source from PowerBI service containing relevant data.
- Basic understanding of PowerBI to navigate and interact with the dashboard.

## Getting Started

To get started with the dashboard:

1. Download and install Microsoft PowerBI Desktop if you haven't already.
2. Open PowerBI Desktop.
3. Open the provided .pbix file containing the dashboard.
4. Explore the various tabs and visualizations to gain insights into company and team performance.

## Future posible enhancements

The dashboard is designed to evolve and accommodate new data over time. Some potential future enhancements could include:

- **Real-Time Data Integration:** Implementing real-time data integration by creating a database which would be connected to multiple ERPs in order to have a contiunous and stable data source. Then, connect each table from the database in order to provide executives with up-to-date insights into company performance.
- **Advanced Analytics:** Adding additional data and using statistical techniques to forecast sales trends or identify opportunities for cost, revenue and HR optimization.

## Feedback and Support

Feedback on the dashboard is welcome and encouraged. If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvement, feel free to contact me.


